                            Chapter 2: A PRAGMATIC APPROACH

Topic 8: The Essence of Good Design.

Tip 14: Good Design is Easier to Change Than Bad Design
 A this is well designed if it adapts to the users.

ETC "Easier to Change" Principal

ETC IS A VALUE, NOT A RULE.

Values are things that help you make decisions and ETC is a guid that helps choose between paths.

"Did the thing I just did make the overall system easier or harder to change"
Keep asking yourself this, when you save a file, when writting a test and when fixing a bug.

When aren't sure; 
	- Try making what you write replacable
	- Treat this as a way to develop instincts


Topic 9: DRY - The Evils of Duplication

"Every piece of knowledge must have a single, unambiguous, authoritative representation within a system."

Tip 15: DRY-Don't Repeat Yourself

DRY IS MORE THAN CODE

DRY is about the duplication of knowledge, of intent. Expressing same thing in different places.
But not all code duplication is Knowledge Duplication.

Duplications problems and Strategies:
  - Duplication in Code: Not All Code Duplication Is Knowledge Duplication
  - Duplication in Documentation: They way we comment in the code and document it, like mentioning a dynamic data in the documentation/comments
  - DRY Violations in Data: 
  - Representational Duplications: Duplication Across Internal/Extenal APIs, Duplication with data sources
  - InterDeveloper Duplications: 
	
Tip 16: Make it Easy to Reuse.

Types of duplication:

 - Imposed duplication: Developers feel they have no choice—the environment seems to require duplication.
 - Inadvertent duplication: Developers don't realize that they are duplicating information.
 - Impatient duplication: Developers get lazy and duplicate because it seems easier.
 - Interdeveloper duplication: Multiple people on a team (or on different teams) duplicate a piece of information.


Topic 10: Orthogonality
- Two or more things are orthogonal if changes in one do not affect any of the others.
  a.k.a Cohesion.

In a well designed code Database code is orthogonal to the UI code.

BENEFITS OF ORTHOGONALITY:

Tip 17: Eliminate Effects Between Unrelated Things.

- Increses Productivity: Promotes reuse, Changes are Localized, 
- Reduces risk : reduces the risks inherent in any development.

Ways You Can apply Orthogonality Principle

 Design:  Systems should be composed of a set of cooperating modules, each of
	    which implements functionality independent of the others
 Toolkits and Libraries: if added toolkit/libraries imposes changes on your code that shouldn’t be there. If an object
	    persistence scheme is transparent, then it’s orthogonal.
 Coding: Techniques to maintain Orthogonality in code:
		- Keep your code decoupled: Write shy code—modules that don’t reveal anything unnecessary to other modules and that don’t rely on
		   other modules’ implementations.
		- Avoid Global Data: 
		- Avoid Similar Functions:
 Testing: Orthogonal systems are easier to test.
 Documentation: should be able to change the appearance dramatically without changing the content

LIVING WITH ORTHOGONALITY: DRY focuses on minimizing duplications while Orthogonality reduces intedependency.

 Qn. What are the differences in orthogonality between objectoriented and functional languages? Are these differences
inherent in the languages themselves, or just in the way people
use them?

Topic 11: Reversibility:

Be Prepared for Change.

 "Nothing is more dangerous than an idea if it’s the only one you have." 

The problem is that critical decisions aren’t easily reversible.
Once you decide to use this vendor’s database, or that architectural pattern, or a certain deployment model, you are
committed to a course of action that cannot be undone, except at great expense.


Tip 18: There are No Final Decisions

FLEXIBLE ARCHITECTURE

Best ways to make an easy to change Architecture
- Hide third party APIs behind your own abstraction layers.
- Break code into components

Tip 19: Forgo Following Fads
	Enable your code to rock-n-roll: to “rock on’’ when it can, to roll
with the punches when it must. Since we don't know what the future holds and what changes may need to happen.

Topic 12: Tracer Bullets

In new projects your users requirements may be vague. 
Use of new algorithms, techniques, languages, or libraries unknowns will come. 
And environment will change over time before you are done. 

CODE THAT GLOWS IN THE DARK
We're looking for something that gets us from a requirement to some aspect of the final system quickly, visibly, and repeatably.

Look for the important requirements, the ones that define the system, areas with dought and biggest risks. Then prioritize your
development so that these are the first areas you code.

Tip 20: Use Tracer Bullets to find the target

 - Trace code isn't disposable. 
 - Tracer development is consistent with the idea that a project is never finished: there will always be changes required and
	functions to add. It is an incremental approach.
 
Advantages od Tracer Code approach
- Users get to see something working early.
- Developers build a structure to work in.
- You have an integration platform.
- Having something to demostrate
- having a better feel for progress

TRACER BULLETS DON'T ALWAYS HIT THERE TARGET

Tracer bullets show what you're hitting. This may not always be the target. You then adjust your aim until they're on target. That's the point.

TRACER CODE VERSUS PROTOTYPING

With prototype, you're aiming to explore specific aspects of the final system.

With tracer Code, You need to know how the application as a whole hangs together.

Prototyping generates disposable code. Tracer code is lean but complete, and forms part of the skeleton of the final system.

Think of prototyping as the reconnaissance and intelligence gathering that takes place before a single tracer bullet is fired.
